CIP-73 MintingDelegation: demo feedback: Describe how to create a minting delegation proposal in the docs (#3911)
hyperledger-labs/splice: docs/src/validator_operator/validator_delegations.rst

properties as described in the Overview section above (beneficiary, delegate, expiration,
and amulet merge limit), plus the DSO party ID.

All interaction works via the JSON Ledger API (see its
`OpenAPI definition <https://github.com/digital-asset/canton/blob/main/community/ledger/ledger-json-api/src/test/resources/json-api-docs/openapi.yaml>`_).
Check out the `Authentication docs <https://docs.digitalasset.com/operate/3.4/howtos/secure/apis/jwt.html>`_
for more information on how to authenticate the requests.

To create the proposal, submit a ``create`` command via the Ledger API
`command submission endpoint <https://github.com/digital-asset/canton/blob/main/community/ledger/ledger-json-api/src/test/resources/json-api-docs/openapi.yaml#L173>`_.

First, set up the required environment variables:

.. code-block:: bash

   export LEDGER_API_URL="https://validator.example.com:5003"
   export TOKEN="your-auth-token"
   export BENEFICIARY_PARTY="beneficiary::1220abcd..."
   export DELEGATE_PARTY="validator_operator::1220efgh..."
   export DSO_PARTY="DSO::1220ijkl..."
   export EXPIRES_AT="2025-12-31T23:59:59Z"

>    export AMULET_MERGE_LIMIT=40

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   export AMULET_MERGE_LIMIT=10
```

It seems better to use the default merge limit here. If we use 40 we are giving an impression that we are suggesting it.

Author: Fixed

expiration date) without the delegate having to manually withdraw the old delegation first.

Creating Proposals via Ledger API
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> External parties (beneficiaries) who wish to delegate minting to a validator operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
External parties (beneficiaries) who wish to delegate minting to a delegate party
```

Author: Fixed

must create a ``MintingDelegationProposal`` contract. Since beneficiaries typically do not
have access to the wallet UI, they can create proposals programmatically using the
Canton Ledger API.

Prerequisites
"""""""""""""

Before creating a proposal, the beneficiary must have:

1. **Hosting on the validator node**: The beneficiary party must be hosted on the validator
   node where they want to delegate minting.

2. **Ledger API access**: Authenticated access to the validator's Ledger API endpoint,
   including:

   - The Ledger API URL (e.g., ``https://<validator-host>:<port>``)
   - Valid authentication credentials (OAuth2 token or other configured auth method)
   - The beneficiary's party ID

3. **The delegate's party ID**: The delegate is typically the validator operator party,
   but could be another internal party on the validator node.

> 4. **The DSO party ID**: The DSO party ID for the network. This can be obtained from

Reviewer: IIUC external parties typically will not have access to scan API endpoints. This info should be known to them if they have been hosted, or it is readily available elsewhere via internet.

               "amuletMergeLimit": 40
             }
           }
         }
       }
     ]
   }

See the `MintingDelegationProposal template source code
<https://github.com/hyperledger-labs/splice/blob/main/daml/splice-wallet/daml/Splice/Wallet/MintingDelegation.daml>`_
for the complete Daml definition.

Monitoring Proposal Status
""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The beneficiary can monitor their proposal status by querying for active
``MintingDelegationProposal`` contracts via the Ledger API's
`active contracts endpoint <https://github.com/digital-asset/canton/blob/main/community/ledger/ledger-json-api/src/test/resources/json-api-docs/openapi.yaml#L620>`_.
Once accepted, they can query for their ``MintingDelegation`` contract to confirm the
delegation is active.

Withdrawing a Proposal
""""""""""""""""""""""

If the beneficiary wants to withdraw their proposal before it is accepted or rejected,
they can exercise the ``MintingDelegationProposal_Withdraw`` choice on their proposal
contract via the Ledger API's
`exercise endpoint <https://github.com/digital-asset/canton/blob/main/community/ledger/ledger-json-api/src/test/resources/json-api-docs/openapi.yaml#L173>`_.

> 

Reviewer: It would be nice to mention that if the beneficiary wants to change the expiration/amulet merge limit they need to send a new proposal.
